Aran bishara is alzer's senior political
analyst he joins us from London so
talking about the escalation we've had
reports I think it's the first ground
contact between Israeli ground forces
and Hamas what do you make of
that well clearly the Israelis were
testing the ground like literally
testing the ground and to see what
they're up to and uh clearly Hamas was
uh ready for them and definitely uh you
know did strike them as it were and and
uh push them or forced them to pull out
I think that probably proves once again
why the Israelis have been preparing so
hard the past two weeks and why they
have been uh bombarding pounding Gaza
the way they have because the the
ongoing bombing is meant to pave the way
for land Invasion and the more severe
the more
painful uh the more persistent and uh
the more destructive the bombing the
easier it would be for uh the Israeli
military to take on Hamas through at
land Invasion problem here is that the
human cost is getting to be so
unbearable so unbearable that one
wonders how many more days how many more
weeks could Israel go on massacring the
Palestinians the way it's doing
and we're hearing hardened rhetoric from
Israel's prime minister talking about
devastating
consequences and at the same time we're
seeing the US sending troops Hardware
into the region all of these ingredients
they point to the ever increasing
likelihood of this conflict
widening it does but it also brings us
back to point zero or square one as it
were I think the main focus of uh the
nanaha government and Biden is the Gaza
Strip is the inhalation of Hamas uh is
the total control of that place and then
deciding what to do with it and
everything else is secondary and in
order to do that in order for Israel to
be able to take on Gaza destroy it and
take on Hamas it does need the United
States to shelter it from any possible
ramification in the region including the
possibility of hisbah or others joining
on a on a second front so isra Israel is
trying to scare the Lebanese from uh
taking on any such uh second front and
certainly the Americans are also doing
the same telling everyone don't in order
to Shield Israel there is because of
that uh a chance or or a possibility or
or a danger that this might widen
because of the continuous Armament built
up by the United States but once again I
think their main focus is the
destruction and the flattening of
Gaza in I know we've spoken about this
before Maran but it might be helpful to
remind ourselves of the context as well
Especial Especially given that another
war is going on in Ukraine in which the
Earth has been calling for the end of
occupation are we seeing at all in the
discourse in the US any discussion about
pressuring Israel to deal with the root
causes ending occupation ending Siege
ending what international and Israeli
human rights groups call apartheid
policies by
Israel well thank you for bringing that
up Samy because sometimes I think even
we at Al jazer who
Master the uh The Narrative of context
because journalism without context is is
not journalism it's just wire service we
in journalism we have to provide context
without context there is no narrative
there is no understanding there is no
possibility to really place what is
happening now in its proper historic
context but for the Israelis and and the
Americans and and their other supporters
in the west especially in the western
media the idea has been is that history
has started in October 7 everything
prior to October 7 should not be
discussed even journalists and
presenters and anchors are you know
given guidelines not to discuss anything
before October 7 as if that was The Day
the Earth was
created and that's the problem with much
of the discussion that's going on today
in the United States and even in Israel
because as you said there there are
there are uh root causes to this thing
and and it's not like there are cliches
or anything Gaza has been
under
siege hermetic siege for 17 years it has
been occupied for more than five decades
what do we mean by what do we mean by
occupation it means the the spiritual
mental psychological and physical
torture torture of an entire people over
so many decades that's what we mean by
occupation it means the Israeli military
dictates who lives and and and who dies
who starves who gets medical treatment
and who doesn't who can stay and who can
go who can live and who must then leave
you know it's just the the racism that
has been involved over the past so many
years the dispossession of the
Palestinian so many years is the root
cause of this thing so without us
understanding that Israel carried more
than 100 more than 100 bombing
campaigns campaigns not one bombing
bombing campaigns like what we saw today
bombing campaigns killing hundreds of
people over the past 17 years we don't
understand why Gaza is what Gaza is
today so the idea that Israel has has
had such history of Oppression of of
military control of another people a
racist aparted
regime if we dismiss that if we decide
that history is starts in October 7 we
will never understand what's going on
and we will then lead to more
mistakes more blowbacks more uis leading
to even Graver situations I heard before
you were discussing just briefly by the
way S I heard you because I heard you
been discussing the idea of lensy Graham
and so on I get the feeling that the
Americans think that we live in the 18th
century and that the Palestinians are
the IND Indians the new American Indians
you know we all love American Indians
but the Palestinians are not American
Indians and this is not the 17th century
and Israel is not America and the Middle
East is not North America the
Palestinians are not going to be inated
as people the Palestinian people are
going to exist and Israel a country of 9
10 million people needs to exist among
400 million Arabs and over a billion
Muslims
and it needs to behave it has to stop
with the arrogance it has to stop with
the racism and it has to stop
believing as a small nation in a sea of
Arabs and Muslims that it can live Only
By The Sword it can it needs to live by
peace and Justice that's the only way it
could attain
security all right thanks for your
thoughts and Analysis Maran bishar there